# pandemic-simulation

My project simulates a city under a pandemic. In terms of implementation, I use the Graph ADT to represent my City, built-in ArrayList to represent each of my Building, which stores objects of Human type. Each day, I remove a number of Humans from any number of Buildings, and move them to any number of other Buildings. I perform actions I wrote on each individual Human. I traverse the Graph and iterate through all the Buildings in the City to obtain a count of Humans in each of the four different states (healthy, infected, recovered, dead). In terms of application/user interaction, the user determines the number of each type of building, and that of each type of human, as well as the fatality rate of the disease, at the start of the simulation. As each day progresses, they are informed of the count of Humans in each of the four states, after which they choose the lockdown level for the next day, which changes the capacity of some buildings in the City. There is an element of randomness in my simulation (which I explain in greater detail in the next section), however, it is also a realistic simulation relative to itself in that the ratio of human/building, the number of cautious people vs. reckless people, the fatality rate of the disease, etc. all affect the outcome of this sim city as one would expect they do in the real world.

First, compile all java files. Then, run City.java. You will then see a brief description of this simulation, and be prompted to build your sim city by entering the number of Homes, NonHomes, Cautious people, Reckless people you wish to have, as well as the fatality rate of the disease you wish to see. You will then see the stats display for Day 0. All your humans are healthy at this point. Type anything but "save" to proceed to Day 1. Starting from Day 1, you will see the number of healthy, infected, recovered, and dead individuals displayed during each day. You can then input a lockdown level you wish to implement in the following day, which changes the capacity of some buildings in the city. Whenever you wish to stop playing, simply type "save" at the end of each day when prompted. The only random element per se in this program is the capacity of NonHomes when constructed, ranging from 10,000 to 100,000. All other random numbers generated are means to achieve the respective fixed probabilities I programmed. As such, as you experiment with this simulation, you will notice certain trends and correlations. For instance, when the number of Reckless humans is far greater than that of Cautious humans, a smaller percentage of the population survives in the end; when there are many buildings and few humans, it takes more days for the disease to infect the entire population; etc. You will most certainly discover more trends as you experiment with your inputs. In theory, you can progress through an unlimited number of days. However, this simulation effectively ends (that is, no meaningful change is to occur) when all humans are either recovered or dead, i.e. the count of healthy individuals and that of infected individuals are 0. This is because once a Human has recovered, they stay recovered and once a Human is dead, they stay dead.
